Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/ca-fopen.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _ca_fopen:

=============
DVB CA open()
=============

Name
----

DVB CA open()


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int open(const char *name, int flags)
    :name: dvb-ca-open


Arguments
---------

``name``
  Name of specific DVB CA device.

``flags``
  A bit-wise OR of the following flags:

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0

    -
       - O_RDONLY
       - read-only access

    -
       - O_RDWR
       - read/write access

    -
       - O_NONBLOCK
       - open in non-blocking mode
         (blocking mode is the default)


Description
-----------

This system call opens a named ca device (e.g. /dev/ost/ca) for
subsequent use.

When an open() call has succeeded, the device will be ready for use. The
significance of blocking or non-blocking mode is described in the
documentation for functions where there is a difference. It does not
affect the semantics of the open() call itself. A device opened in
blocking mode can later be put into non-blocking mode (and vice versa)
using the F_SETFL command of the fcntl system call. This is a standard
system call, documented in the Linux manual page for fcntl. Only one
user can open the CA Device in O_RDWR mode. All other attempts to open
the device in this mode will fail, and an error code will be returned.


Return Value
------------

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{2.5cm}|p{15.0cm}|

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  ``ENODEV``

       -  Device driver not loaded/available.

    -  .. row 2

       -  ``EINTERNAL``

       -  Internal error.

    -  .. row 3

       -  ``EBUSY``

       -  Device or resource busy.

    -  .. row 4

       -  ``EINVAL``

       -  Invalid argument.

Commit message:

media: dvb uAPI docs: adjust return value ioctl descriptions
There are several issues on the return value for ioctls:

- Text is confusing;
- Some error codes don't exist;
- The non-generic error codes should come before the text
  that points to the generic error codes;
- Tables don't contain column size hints;
- Some references are not marked as such.

Correct them.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/ca-fopen.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _ca_fopen:

=============
DVB CA open()
=============

Name
----

DVB CA open()


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int open(const char *name, int flags)
    :name: dvb-ca-open


Arguments
---------

``name``
  Name of specific DVB CA device.

``flags``
  A bit-wise OR of the following flags:

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0

    -
       - O_RDONLY
       - read-only access

    -
       - O_RDWR
       - read/write access

    -
       - O_NONBLOCK
       - open in non-blocking mode
         (blocking mode is the default)


Description
-----------

This system call opens a named ca device (e.g. /dev/ost/ca) for
subsequent use.

When an open() call has succeeded, the device will be ready for use. The
significance of blocking or non-blocking mode is described in the
documentation for functions where there is a difference. It does not
affect the semantics of the open() call itself. A device opened in
blocking mode can later be put into non-blocking mode (and vice versa)
using the F_SETFL command of the fcntl system call. This is a standard
system call, documented in the Linux manual page for fcntl. Only one
user can open the CA Device in O_RDWR mode. All other attempts to open
the device in this mode will fail, and an error code will be returned.


Return Value
------------


On success 0 is returned.

On error -1 is returned, and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately.

Generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.
