Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/dmx-fwrite.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _dmx_fwrite:

=================
DVB demux write()
=================

Name
----

DVB demux write()


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: ssize_t write(int fd, const void *buf, size_t count)
    :name: dvb-dmx-write

Arguments
---------

``fd``
  File descriptor returned by a previous call to :c:func:`open() <dvb-ca-open>`.

``buf``
     Buffer with data to be written

``count``
    Number of bytes at the buffer

Description
-----------

This system call is only provided by the logical device
/dev/dvb/adapter0/dvr0, associated with the physical demux device that
provides the actual DVR functionality. It is used for replay of a
digitally recorded Transport Stream. Matching filters have to be defined
in the corresponding physical demux device, /dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0.
The amount of data to be transferred is implied by count.


Return Value
------------

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{2.5cm}|p{15.0cm}|

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0

    -  .. row 1

       -  ``EWOULDBLOCK``

       -  No data was written. This might happen if O_NONBLOCK was
	  specified and there is no more buffer space available (if
	  O_NONBLOCK is not specified the function will block until buffer
	  space is available).

    -  .. row 2

       -  ``EBUSY``

       -  This error code indicates that there are conflicting requests. The
	  corresponding demux device is setup to receive data from the
	  front- end. Make sure that these filters are stopped and that the
	  filters with input set to DMX_IN_DVR are started.

    -  .. row 3

       -  ``EBADF``

       -  fd is not a valid open file descriptor.

Commit message:

media: dvb uAPI docs: adjust return value ioctl descriptions
There are several issues on the return value for ioctls:

- Text is confusing;
- Some error codes don't exist;
- The non-generic error codes should come before the text
  that points to the generic error codes;
- Tables don't contain column size hints;
- Some references are not marked as such.

Correct them.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/dmx-fwrite.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _dmx_fwrite:

=================
DVB demux write()
=================

Name
----

DVB demux write()


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: ssize_t write(int fd, const void *buf, size_t count)
    :name: dvb-dmx-write

Arguments
---------

``fd``
  File descriptor returned by a previous call to :c:func:`open() <dvb-ca-open>`.

``buf``
     Buffer with data to be written

``count``
    Number of bytes at the buffer

Description
-----------

This system call is only provided by the logical device
/dev/dvb/adapter0/dvr0, associated with the physical demux device that
provides the actual DVR functionality. It is used for replay of a
digitally recorded Transport Stream. Matching filters have to be defined
in the corresponding physical demux device, /dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0.
The amount of data to be transferred is implied by count.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned.

On error -1 is returned, and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately.

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{2.5cm}|p{15.0cm}|

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths: 1 16

    -  -  ``EWOULDBLOCK``
       -  No data was written. This might happen if ``O_NONBLOCK`` was
	  specified and there is no more buffer space available (if
	  ``O_NONBLOCK`` is not specified the function will block until buffer
	  space is available).

    -  -  ``EBUSY``
       -  This error code indicates that there are conflicting requests. The
	  corresponding demux device is setup to receive data from the
	  front- end. Make sure that these filters are stopped and that the
	  filters with input set to ``DMX_IN_DVR`` are started.

The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.
